> Archived monolithic version of PlotDirector with a text based front end.
> See `master` branch for client server version with a gui.
>
# Plot Director

Plot Director is a process that consumes plotter commands from a text file generated by 
[OPENRNDR](https://github.com/openrndr/openrndr) and the add-on feature 
[OPENRNDR Plot](https://github.com/nfletton/openrndr-plot) and drives an AxiDraw/NextDraw 
plotter via its Python API.

## Features
- Executes [NextDraw Python API](https://bantam.tools/nd_py) commands contained in a text file
- Supports definition of reusable sets of API commands for operations such a paintbrush dipping and washing. 
- Notification of plot completion via a webhook
- Pausing plots for pen change
- Calibration of home position to allow pen alignment to be adjusted after pen changes.

## Usage
To use, create a Python virtual environment and run `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install 
required packages (currently only the NextDraw API)

To run Plot Director: 
```shell
python plot_director.py <path to command file> <optional webhook URL>
```

For example, to run one of the included command file examples from 
this directory in a Linux terminal, the run command would be:
```shell
python plot_director.py command_examples/inline_adjust_pen_height.txt https://ntfy.sh/<your topic> 
```

## Input File Format
Sample input files are contained in the [command_examples](command_examples) directory.

An input file consists of:
- **Comments**  
  Any line starting with a `#` is interpreted as a comment and ignored.
- **Three Sections**
  - API options—considered as the defaults, set before a `connect()` call and
    used for restoring defaults during the plot process.
  - Definitions—that define reusable sets of plot commands: e.g. brush refill or wash
  - Plot commands—that define the finished artwork.


### NextDraw Interactive API Options  
Lines in the input file beginning with the name of 
an [API Option](https://bantam.tools/nd_py/#setting-options) results in a call to the respective API call. 
If placed in the options section of the input file, the option is
set along with other default options before calls to `connect()`. 

Options placed inline in the plot commands section of the input file 
are set as they occur 
and automatically followed by a call to `update()`
   
e.g. `pen_pos_down 30` results in a [call to](https://bantam.tools/nd_py/#pen_pos_down).

### Reusable Command Sequences
Lines in the definitions section of the input file
define reusable blocks of API commands.
This is useful when repeated sequences of commands are needed for 
tasks such as reloading or washing a paintbrush in a well. A simple definition
looks like `repeat_me penup | moveto 100 100 | pendown | lineto 120 120`.
In this example the definition would be called by its name with the line `repeat_me` in
the plot commands section of the input file..


### NextDraw Interactive API Functions
Any line in the plot commands section of the input file beginning with the name of an 
[API Function](https://bantam.tools/nd_py/#functions-interactive) results in a call to the respective API call 
e.g. `draw_path [[20.0,20.0],[190.0,20.0],[190.0,128.0],[20.0,128.0],[20.0,20.0]]`
results in a [call to](https://bantam.tools/nd_py/#draw_path).

### Pause Command  
Any line in the plot commands section of the input file beginning with `pause ` 
causes processing of further commands to pause until 
the user enters the continue console command to resume the plot.

Any characters after the command name are interpreted as a message which is sent to the console 
and the optional webhook.
